The four layer model of the Internet takes a stream of data from the application layer. the
transport layer breaks the stream the segments of data that it reliably delivers to an application running on another computer.
The transport layer send these segments as network layer packets. which the networklare delivers to the other computer.
Let's see what this looks like in
practice. the actual packets that a web browser and server send and receive.
1st let's look at the transport layer.
Almost all web traffic is over TCP. the transport control protocol.
In its typical operation. there's a client and a server.
A server listens for connection requests to open a connection. A client issues a connection request. which the server responds to.
I won't go into the details of exactly how this works. but it turns out this exchange takes three messages. something called the three way handshake.
The 1st step of the message is when the client sends a synchronized message the server. often called the sin.
The 2nd step is when the server responds at the synchronized message that also acknowledges the client synchronize. or a synchronize and acknowledge message. often called a synic.
The 3rd and final step is when the client responds by acknowledging the server synchronize. often call an act.
So often the three handshake is described as synchronize. synchronizing. acknowledge acknowledge. or sin synack act.
Recall that the networklare is responsible for delivering packets to computers.
The transport layer is responsible for delivering data to applications.
From the perspective of the network layer. pockets sent to different applications on the same computer look the same.
This means that to open a TCP stream to another program. we need two addresses.
The 1st. an Internet protocol address. is the address the network layer uses deliver packets to the computer.
The 2nd. the TCP port. tells the computer software which application to deliver data to Webb servers usually run on TCP port 80.
So when we open a connection to a web server. we send IC packets to the computer running the web server whose destination address is that computers IP address.
Those IP pockets have TCP segments. segments whose destination port is 80 But how do those IP packets get to their destination?
We don't have a direct wire connecting my client to the server.
Instead. my client is connected to an intermediate computer a router.
This router is itself connected to other routers. ip packets between the client and the server.
Take many of hops where a hop is connect is a link connecting two routers.
Since my client is on a wifi network. the 1st stop. the 1st hop. is wireless to the wi fi access point.
The access point has a wired connection to the broader ocean. so it affords my packets. my clients. packets along this wired hop.
A router can have many links connecting.
As each packet arrives. a router decides which of its links to send it out on.
Routers have IP addresses. so it's also the case that it might not for the packet that rather deliver to its own software. e.g.. when you log into a router using TCP. the IP packets are destined to the router's own IP address.
How does a router make this decision?
It does so through something called a affording table. shown here on the right.
Affording table consists of a set of IP address patterns. and linked to send it cross for each pattern.
When a packet arrives. the router checks which foreign table entries pattern best matches the packet. it affords the packet along that entry's link.
Generally. best means the most specific.
I'll describe how matching works more detail in the video on longest prefix match.
But in this simple example. let's just consume the default route. the 1st entry in the table above.
The default route is the least specific route.
It matches every IP address. If when a packet arrives there isn't a more specific route than the default route. the router will just use the default one.
The default route is especially useful in edge networks. say. e.g.
your Stanford University. and have a router connecting you to the larger Internet.
Your router will have many specific routes for the ip addresses of Stanfords networks.
Send packets to the engineering school over this list. send packet library over that link.
But if the
destination IP address is in Stanfords. and the router should send it out to the larger Internet.
So now let's look at some
IP packets in a real I'm going to request a webpage from www
dot brown I-E view and use a tool called
wireshot to show you all of the pockets.
We'll see how my web browser opens a TCP connection to the Brown Webb server using a through a handshake of sin
synak Ac then starts issuing ACTB get requests. which the server responds to it data.
Once we've seen the exchange of packets between my client and the Brown University Webb server. I'll use another tool called Trace Route to observe the path of these packets take through the Internet.
So 1st. I'll start up wire Shark. because my computer is using many network applications and sending lots of different packets.
I'm going to tell wire Shark to only display packets that are TCP segments to the Brown server. using Port 80.
This way we'll only see the web traffic I'm generating.
I'm also going to tell wire shark to listen on E-N. which is the name my Mac gives to my Wi Fi linklair.
As you can see. I have many linklairs available. but let's just look at E-N once since that song. can how im connected to the Internet?
Next. ill open my web browser and request the web page for Brown universitys Computer Science Department.
This is where I went as an undergraduate. and so I like to keep up with news in the department.
You can see in wire shark that loading this page involves sending and receiving a thought of the packets.
Wire Sharks shows me the time stamp of each packet. the source IP address. the destination I pay. address. what protocol it uses. it's length. and further information.
Let's look at this 1st packet.
It's from my computer. whose address is one name. two. got one. six. eight. that zero dot.
One. Oh. six to the brown cs web server. whose address is one. two. eight. got one. four. eight. got 32 dot.
Twelve. It's going to TCP port 80. the hyper text transfer protocol port on the server. which we can see from the ACTP field in the info column.
The pocket is the sin packet.
The 1st step of the three a handshake.
Look at these 1st three pockets.
The 1st is a sink from my computer to the web server.
The 2nd is a sin ack packet from the web server back to my computer.
The 3rd is an act from my computer back to the Webb server.
This is the three way handshake.
Now the two computers can exchange data. and you can see the 1st data packet is an icy depure request.
My computer sends a get request to the web server.
The response to this get request is three pockets.
Wire Shark shows the response when it receives the 3rd one. shown in the line. whose info is 80 top slash 1.1 200.
OK. so here we can see how my requesting a webpage from brown's computer science server creates a tisby connection to the three way three IP packets for the three way handshake. than more pockets for the ATP request and response.
This is how the network looks to the end hosts the computers as they exchange.
Packets of the networklare. But how does it look like inside the What hops these packets take?
To see this. I'm going to use a 2nd tool. trace Route.
Trace Route shows you the hop that packets take to a destination.
So we can type trace route W-W dot CS dot brown.
But ev to see the path through the Internet. or the dash W flag. which specifies a time out with a time out of 1 S. the 1st hop the packets take it's to my wireless router.
Beside Piadris is one. nine. two. that one. six. eight. that zero. that one.
As you can see from the next top. I'm at home.
I have a cable modem. and my Internet provider is a stound.
After this. magnets. take another hop to an IP router with IP address 74.
Dot 14. does zero. dot three.
The hop after that is a router in San Francisco. california. then several routers in San Jose. SJC for above dot net. and San Jose won for level three.
After San Jose won that. level three dot Net.
The packets are across the United States and New York.
They go through a series of routers in New York.
EBR cs W EBR Then on Hop 13 to Boston. often is very close to providence. or Brown is after ocean or. we see three stars.
This means there's a router that won't tell trace round about itself.
The stars are trace routes. way
to show it. Wage for a apply with a reply time.
On hop 20. we see a router and Brown CS Department.
After
that. everything is hidden. Brown CS Department doesn't want to be able to see with
the rest in the inside of its network looks like.
because we couldn't see the path end with browns web server.
Let's try another one. the Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Lab Sea
sale at MIT. We can see the packets take the same path to Boston until hop 15.
The path of brown goes to ocean at hop 15. while the path MIT continues in level threes network On the path to www. sea sailed that MIT. da EDI.
Only two routers are hidden the 13th and 19th hops.
We can see the www that c sailed on MIT is also named Akron. that c sales at MITU.
And after 22 hops. pockets from my computer reach mit's web server.
Look at the time values. the time from my pocket to reach the MIT web server. and its response turned to me there and back.
The round trip time is under 90 milliseconds. or less than an I blinks.
We've now seen the life a packet. starting as an application level client. web request and taking nearly 20 hops of the Internet to read this destination.
For me. this is one of the best things about teaching this course.
Everything we present is something that you and I interact with every day.
Even there's in the space of watching one video. it's easy to see the principles and ideas in practice. and with just a few simple tools. you can inspect the Internet in operation in real time.